XML is a markup language which is used to contain information in a deliberately neutral
fashion.
It's extremely versatile and it could be used as a container for any information which can
be represented as text.
This neutrality allows XML to enable communication between systems and environments which
have little or nothing in common.
For example,
let's say we have four systems that need to talk to each other and exchange data.
If they send data directly to each other,
they're unlikely to be discrepancies and errors.
Whereas if all the systems are XML aware by he's in XML,
they're all on the same page and they know that when they exchange data,
they're going to get controllable and predictable results.
It's important to point out,
however,
that the phrase using XML doesn't employ that there is only one version of XML.
XML doesn't have a fixed,
preset vocabulary,
which everyone has to use.
It allows developers to define the names of the elements on the rules governing the data
contained within these different elements.
So in our example,
the four systems in question wouldn't just be used in except Mount to exchange data.
There would be using a specific XML vocabulary with a known set of elements and a known set
of rules as to how content has to be these crime within the XML documents that they
exchange between each other.
Another common scenario is where organisations have toe output their corporate data in lots
of different media.
Rather than setting up a separate workflow for each medium in which they want to output
data.
They can use XML as the definitive version off their data and then Macon set up work flows
from XML to the different media.
So XML toe print XML to e book XML to pdf XML to the World Wide Web and so forth.
An XML document is essentially a text document and it can be opened in any text editor.
So let's go into the 02 folders,
you know,
to XML Essentials and then 01 what is XML and just open up the file called basic dot XML
and the key things to note our festival that it's human readable.
We can see the data itself.
Seven see people's names,
people skills and we can deduce the function of each of the pieces of data.
Looking at the names of the tags,
which surround each piece of data.
We can also see that the document has a hierarchical structure.
This is emphasized by the editor.
So here in brackets you'll notice that we have collapsible arrows next to allow those
elements,
which contains other elements,
so we can see that there are essentially three levels at the top level,
we have staff.
Levi collapsed are you'll see that the entire document is collapsed.
Then,
within the staff element,
we have a series of staff member elements,
and again,
each of these congee collapsed and expanded within each staff member element.
We have first name,
last name skills and photo,
and then inside each of these,
we have the actual data.
That's an overview of what XML is all about.
In the next video,
we'll move on to talk in more detail about the structure of XML documents.